# Energy Web Innovation Challenge Proposal
* **Project Name**: Foton Energy Transition Monitoring & Marketplace integrated with EW DID
* **Project Proposer GitHub**: https://github.com/Foton-Energy
* **Energy Web Chain Payment Address**: 0x3f729eA0A87C05486d2b366fe86353097FBF3fcE

## Project Description
EW Digital Identity design can unlock the benefits of “household energy monitoring” applications. Household Energy Monitoring applications have been in the market more than a decade now and still did not attract the household consumers’ attention. In this paper, we have revisited our household energy monitoring business model proposal from 2012 and integrated EW DID and EWT to come up with a new innovation idea.

Foton Household Energy Monitoring & Energy Transition Points is user business side of the project. Foton Household Energy Monitoring & Marketplace DID is connected to HVAC, Appliances, EV Charging, Energy Generation & Storage authorized DIDs and Supply API. Foton DID requires the information from authorized device DIDs to calculate the energy transition points of the household in following aspects:

1-	Renewable Energy Generation & Consumption: Platform will monitor the authorized solar panel DID, energy storage DID, electricity & gas meter DID and calculate Renewable Energy Generation & Consumption points. Renewable energy generated by the Solar PV is recorded on the inverter DID. Smart meter or a smart meter device DID records the electricity transfer to the grid both ways. Energy Storage charge & discharge is recorded on the second inverter DID. Using the data from these three DIDs, we can calculate the amount of renewable energy self-consumed by the household. On the top of that we can add the amount of 

2-	Efficient Consumption: Platform will monitor the electricity & gas meter DID, the various authorized HVAC and Appliances DIDs such as thermometers, appliance consumption profiles and inputs such as house type , no of occupants. Using the outcome of these inputs, platform will calculate Efficient Consumption points. Efficient Consumption Points is a standard deviation of the household energy consumption from the normal distribution of households in the same category. Households are categorized according to the number of occupants living in the house and the area of the room. Efficient Consumption Points is simple to be calculated for each household; but it is also important to be developed in a way that households use the outcome to consult for the efficiency of their appliances and insulation. Using the points insight, households can address the efficiency leaks in their household and fix it. Efficiency leaks has two main categories: HVAC appliances & home appliances. As for the home appliances, the monitoring app compares the each of the appliance efficiency according to the regulators’ energy-efficient label requirements and their real performance and for the HVAC appliances, the the monitoring app compares the amount of energy used for keeping the in-house temperature compared to outside temperatures. 

3-	Balancing Demand Profile: Platform will monitor the electricity meter DID, EV charging, energy storage and other schedulable appliances DIDs to calculate Balancing Demand Profile points. One of the most important feature of Energy Transition is to participate in grid flexibility. To be able to attend in grid flexibility, EW Flex Tool enables vertically integrated utilities, distribution system operators and transmission operators to register, qualify, dispatch and settle energy storage devices. Moreover demand-side management programs can be adopted to allow schedulable appliances and EV charging according to the dispatching strategy of the grid. The each flexible capacity, household participates in the demand-side management programme and/or virtual power plant programme, will be counted as Balancing Profile Points. To be able to unlock Blanacing Profile Points, the household should register EW Flex or other exchange enabler flexibility tools. Then these tools will send the amount of flexible capacities transacted to the Foton DID.

Energy Transition Points can later be used on the marketplace to purchase efficient appliances and investment renewable energy generation and insulation services. Foton Marketplace is the consumer business side of the project. Using the outcomes from Foton Energy Monitoring & Energy Transition Points, Foton builds a marketplace for households to reach out better energy supply contracts, appliances and energy management services such as insulation, energy storage, PV solar installation. There are 5 main categories in the marketplace: Consumption, Generation & Storage, IoT Device, Insulation & Mechanics, Supply. In the consumption category, consumers will find power&gas driven HVAC devices shown on the Figure 6, household appliances, EV Charging solutions & services. In the generation & storage and insulation & mechanics categories, consumers will fill out a standard form to inform the service companies on their need and receive the offers. In the IoT devices category, EW DID integrated smartplugs, thermostats and other smart devices will be offered. In the supply category, the consumers will receive the best and green offers from the energy suppliers.

## Team
* **Members**: Can Arslan, Sıla Duran, Gazmer
* **Code Repositories**: 
* **Website**: https://fotonenergy.com/
* **Team's Experience**:
Foton is an Energy Web affiliate since 2019. Together with EW Origin Team, Foton has implemented a I-REC trading platform for Turkish Energy market. The project description is a journey from 2012 and since then Foton is searching for right partners to build an Energy Transition Marketplace. Members of the team has extensive experience and network in Turkish energy market. 

## Development Roadmap
* Total Estimated Duration: 8 months

### Milestone 1: Foton DID core
Identifying core data inputs and testing on Foton DID 
* Estimated Duration: 2 months

### Milestone 2: Foton Monitoring Services & UX
User dashboard showing Energy Transition Points gained from Energy Generation, Efficient Consumption and Balancing Demand Profile.
* Estimated Duration: 6 months

### Milestone 3: Foton Marketplace & UX
Agreements with device suppliers and service providers to build the marketplace.
Setting payment modules.
* Estimated Duration: 8 months

# Additional Information
Whitepaper is prepared
