# Energy Web Innovation Challenge Proposal
* **Project Name**: Example Project Name
* **Project Proposer GitHub**: [https://github.com/ekapassa/ew-challenge](https://github.com/ekapassa/ew-challenge)
* **Energy Web Chain Payment Address**: 0x603a576235b75FdEcb49962a9516FdeDe09B7af5

## Project Description

### Background and Motivation

### Concept and Methodology 

### Relation to Energy Web’s mission



## Team

* **Members**: Marinos Themistocleous, Klitos Christodoulou, Evgenia Kapassa, Vassilis Nkolopoulos

* **Website**: 

* **Team's Experience**:

    * ***Prof. Marinos Themistocleous:*** M. Themistocleous is currently a director of Education and Training at IFF (Institute for the Future) of the University of Nicosia in Cyprus. He holds a B.Sc. in Computer Science, a Postgraduate Degree in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education, a M.Sc. in Information Systems Management and Ph.D. in Informatics. Before joining University of Nicosia, he worked as a Lecturer and a Senior Lecturer at Brunel University, UK. He has close relationships with industry and has worked as a consultant for the Greek Ministry of Finance, the Greek Standardization body, the Greek Federation of SMEs, the Bank of Greece, ORACLE UK, Havering Council, etc. He has authored several teaching textbooks, internationally refereed journal papers and conference articles and has received many citations and awards of excellence. His research has attracted funding from various funding bodies. He acts as an international reviewer for research proposals submitted to the European Union and other funding bodies. His current research interests include Blockchain Technology, Digital Currency, Smart Contracts, Information Systems, Information Systems Integration and Digital Services.
        * *LinkdIn*: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinos-themistocleous-2875832b](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinos-themistocleous-2875832b)

    * ***Assistant Prof. Klitos Christodoulou:*** K. Christodoulou is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Management and MIS – Digital Currency at the University of Nicosia (UNIC). He is also a research faculty at the Institute for the Future (IFF) at the same University since Oct. 2018. He holds a B.Sc. in Computer Science and an M.Sc. in Advanced Computer Science – with specialisation in Advanced Applications, both from the University of Manchester, UK. In 2014, Klitos obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the School of Computer Science at the University of Manchester, UK. He has been an adjunct staff member of the Information Management Group (IMG) in the School of Computer Science, at the University of Manchester where he engaged in various research and teaching activities. Klitos served as a chair and committee member in a variety of International conferences. Currently, he serves as an Associate Editor at the Frontiers in Blockchain Journal and Guest Editor on the special issue of Future Internet (MDPI Journal) on Blockchain Applications. His research interests span both Data Management challenges; with a focus on Machine Learning techniques, and Distributed Ledger Technologies; with an emphasis on Blockchain ledgers. He has given numerous invited talks and tutorials involved Blockchain technologies. Klitos teaches courses on Blockchain Applications and Blockchain Programming under UNIC’s MSc in Digital Currency programme. He is also a member of the ISO/TC 307 Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies group. Klitos is also an active member for developing the Cyprus National Strategy for Blockchain. In addition, Klitos is the Principal Investigator of the Ripple grant and participates as a research member to a number of EU funded projects e.g., EUNOMIA (Horizon 2020) and DLT4ALL (Erasmus+) projects.
        * *Code Repository:* [https://github.com/klitoschr](https://github.com/klitoschr)
        * *LinkedIn:* [https://www.linkedin.com/in/klitoschristodoulou/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinos-themistocleous-2875832b)
    
    * ***Research Assistant, PhD Candidate Evgenia Kapassa:*** E. Kapassa received her M.Sc degree in Advanced Information Systems, from the Department of Digital Systems, University of Piraeus, Greece. Her diploma thesis was a “Complete Service Level Agreements Management Framework in 5G Environments”, focusing on the management of the Network Services’ lifecycle, taking into consideration QoS and QoE parameters from heterogenous recourses. Since 2017, she has been a researcher at the Research Canter of the University of Piraeus focusing on 5G/SDN networks with an emphasis not only on technology-specific aspects but also on real-world cases-adopting cutting-edge and high-impact approaches that address the ICT industry needs. Currently, she is a Ph.D. candidate in University of Nicosia, Cyprus, focusing on how blockchain can benefit future generation networks in fast-changing markets. At the same time is a Research Assistant in the Institute for the Future at the University of Nicosia working on smart-contract enabled market platform based on blockchain technology, in the renewable energy sector, emphasizing on blockchain based local flexibility market platform (LFM) tools and services. She has participated and contributed in several research projects realized in the context of EU Programmes, and her research interests are in the fields of data management across the software lifecycle, quality of service enforcement, IoT management, distributed ledger technologies, blockchain and future generation networks.
        * *Code Repository:* [https://github.com/ekapassa](https://github.com/ekapassa)
        * *LinkedIn:* [https://www.linkedin.com/in/evgenia-kapassa-abb720107/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/evgenia-kapassa-abb720107/)

    * ***Dr. Vassilis Nikolopoulos:*** Vassilis Nikolopoulos, Ph.D. is an active entrepreneur, corporate executive, investor & mentor, applied researcher and passionate with technology futurology and Technology transfer. In the last 16 years, Vassilis has been working in applied research, technology transfer and innovation management procedures, focusing on the Big Data problems applied to Utilities and the Energy Sector (Smart Grids). He has also worked for years in applied energy behavioral science, data analytics, algorithms and the application of social networks to change human behaviors towards a more sustainable way of living, especially in corporate environments. He co-founded Intelen (an outcome of his PhD at NTUA), one of the most successful startups in the digital energy and utility analytics market, having some big utilities as clients (including Protergia, MYT). He was also one of the two National Climate champions (Greece) of the British Council, taking part in the Global Youth Forum on Climate Finance 2010 in Shanghai. Being an active entrepreneur, applied researcher and passionate with technology futurology, he has cooperated with more than 40 utilities in the USA and Europe, dealing with customer engagement, customer analytics, AI/ML, energy management and deployment of new business models and digital services. He is a guest lecturer in BlockChain at Nicosia University and in Entrepreneurship at Piraeus University, a reviewer at Elsevier and Blockchain technologies (Editorial Board @Frontiers) and serves also as a Scientific expert/Reviewer at the European Commission in H2020. He has global recognitions in top innovation and entrepreneurship contests (US Red herring, SVASE Silicon Valley, Siemens global smartgrid, OECD eco-innovation, CeBIT top cleantech, etc). He is a mentor at the StartupBootamp accelerator and one of the top-100 Global mentors at the Founder Institute (FI). He is the author of one book in Computer Networks, guest speaker in many conferences and futurology events (ie TedX, SAP Digital, Decentralized, PowerUP EIT, etc) and has more than 50 publications in conferences, journals and technology papers. He is a valedictorian Electrical Engineer from Dundee University, Scotland (with two Class medals and the IEE prize) with postgraduate studies at Imperial College, London School of Economics, Ecole Polytechnique (X) and a PhD from National Technical University of Athens. Also took various courses from HarvardX (Harvard University).
        * *LinkedIn:* [https://www.linkedin.com/in/vnikolop](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vnikolop)

* **Participation in Energy Projects**:

    * ***PARITY - Pro-sumer AwaRe, Transactive Markets for Valorization of Distributed flexibilITY enabled by Smart Energy Contracts:*** PARITY addresses the “structural inertia” of existing distribution grids by delivering a transactive grid & market framework that will increase the durability and efficiency of the electrical grid and facilitate the penetration of RES beyond 50% of the generation mix in the distribution network. Regarding blockchain, PARITY will offer distributed intelligence (DER profiling) and self- learning/self-organization capabilities (automated real-time distributed control), orchestrated by the cost-reflective flexibility market signals generated by the blockchain market platform.

    * ***SINGULAR (DR 2.0 in Microgrids over DSI in real-time):*** A large share of the recent renewable energy sources (RES) installed capacity has already taken place in insular electricity grids, since these regions are preferable due to their high RES potential. SINGULAR investigates the effects of large-scale integration of renewables and demand-side management on the planning and operation of insular (non-interconnected) electricity grids, proposing efficient measures, solutions and tools towards the development of a sustainable and smart grid. Different network operation procedures and tools, based on innovative approaches of predictive electricity network operation, will be developed. The goal is the generation of effective solutions and information so that the integration of insular and highly variable energy resources is maximized. The operation and planning tools and procedures will be applied in different insular electricity grids in five countries across Europe for extensive demonstration, allowing the development of generalized guides of procedures and grid codes specific for future generation of smart insular electricity grids. 

    * ***VIMSEN: Virtual Microgrids for Smart Energy Networks:*** The subsidy feed in tariff policy, which has been recently adopted for accelerating renewable energy investments, cannot be retained as a sustainable business model for the future smart energy grid. This is mainly due to the fact that this policy increases the energy cost, especially when the amount of the energy generated by renewable sources is not negligible compared to the traditional ones, as is expected for the near future. Additionally, the current centralized electricity market prevents small or very small energy producers, who usually generate energy by renewable means-photovoltaic units or wind turbines- to participate. VIMSEN addresses the aforementioned difficulties by transforming the current centralized electricity market framework to a distributed one, introducing the concept of virtual micro-grid networks. Virtual micro-grids (VMGs) are associations of distributed energy generators and/or micro-grid networks, which they have been agreed to operate on a common basis. VMGs provides flexibility to small or very small energy generators, since, i) they can re-distribute energy resources with each other to compensate energy production-distribution and ii) they can directly participate in the electricity market through the respective association, which acts similarly as a big power generator unit. VIMSEN researches i) on an intelligent data metering techniques suitable for the VMG distributed network, ii) on information and decision making technologies for the dynamic VMG creation in a way to optimize participant benefits and macro-grid perspectives, iii) on a reliable communication infrastructure that permits QoS provisioning for data exchange in the VMG network and iv) on an active energy management and control tool for the operation of the virtual micro-grid as a common virtual power unit. Business models to investigate the trade-off between the benefits of the association and the cost of the technologies needed to establish the VMG network.

* **Relevant Publications:**

    * K. Zabaleta, D. Casado-Mansilla, E Kapassa, C.E. Borges, G. Pressmair, M. Themistocleous, D. Lopez-de-Ipina, "Barriers to Widespread the Adoption of Electric Flexibility Markets: A Triangulation Approach", SliTech 2020, under review.
    * P.R. Da Cunha, M. Themistocleous, K. Christodoulou, "Introduction to Blockchain Use Cases and Innovations", Proceedings of the 53rd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2020.
    *  S. Makridakis, K. Christodoulou, "Blockchain: Current Challenges and Future Prospects/Applications", Future Internet 2019, 11, 258, 2019.
    * M. Themistocleous, K. Stefanou, C. Megapanos, E. Iosif, "To Chain or Not to Chain? A Case from Energy Sector", Information Systems. EMCIS 2018. Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing, vol 341. Springer, Cham, 2018,
    * k. Koumoutsos, A. Kretsis, P. Kokkinos, et al., "Gathering and processing energy consumption data from public educational buildings over IPv6", Energ Sustain Soc 5, 24, 2015.
    * M. Themistocleous, K. Stefanou, E. Iosif, "Blockchain in Solar Energy", The Cyprus Review, vol. 30, no. 2, 2018.
    * P. Makris et al., "SOCIALENERGY: A gaming and social network platform for evolving energy markets' operation and educating virtual energy communities," 2018 IEEE International Energy Conference (ENERGYCON), pp. 1-6, 2018.
    * G. Bravos, V. Nikolopoulos, M. Nikolaidou, A. Dimopoulos, D. Anagnostopoulos and G. Dimitrakopoulos, "An autonomic management framework for multi-criticality smart building applications," IEEE 13th International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN), pp. 1378-1385.2015.

* **Patents:**
    * Interactive Activities for Environmental Resource Saving (eu PCT/EP2014/072218), Main Inventor: Vassilis Nikolopoulos
    * Incentive-based scheme for managing and sourcing energy from Electric Vehicles (us 61719531), Main Inventor: Vassilis Nikolopoulos
    * Real-time Social Energy Behavioral Networks (us 61577678), Main Inventor: Vassilis Nikolopoulos


## Development Roadmap
* Total Estimated Duration: 8 weeks

### Milestone 1
* Estimated Duration: 4 weeks

### Milestone 2
* Estimated Duration: 4 weeks

# Additional Information
Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Vivamus pharetra a sapien eget porttitor. Suspendisse potenti. Nam malesuada est urna, et ullamcorper dolor accumsan sit amet. Sed dapibus risus vel turpis aliquet gravida.
